outlines/accounts.md, before:

1. What does Meteor do for you?
    1. Standardized concept of userId in DDP
    2. accounts-base package that has a standard user database, and can be plugged with different login systems
2. The fastest way to get set up for a prototype: accounts-ui
    1. List of easy to set up login providers, code examples
    2. Read more about accounts user interfaces later
3. Password login
    1. accounts-password gives you password login with username, email, or both
    2. How to require username, email, or both
    3. Dealing with multiple email addresses
    4. The case insensitivity issues - working with Meteor 1.2+ password accounts. Basically, don't access Meteor.users directly.
    5. Email flows
        1. Enrollment email
        2. Reset password
        3. Verify email
        4. How to customize emails
        5. Generating HTML or text emails on the server using template strings
4. OAuth login
    1. Meteor has core packages for some of the most common login services
    2. Facebook
    3. GitHub
    4. Google
    5. Twitter
    6. Meetup
    7. Meteor Developer Accounts
    8. Building your own OAuth login handler
5. The useraccounts package for a production-grade login UI
    1. Pick the right package based on your CSS framework
    2. Get help from splendido to flesh out this section - just the basics, then link to the docs
    3. Figure out what to do about useraccounts and adding fields to profile
6. Adding custom data about users
    1. Adding new top-level fields onto the users collection
    2. How and why to disable profile
    3. Why top-level fields are better than nested objects in DDP (link to collections/schema article)
    4. Security concerns - don't accidentally publish secret data to the client
7. Allowing the same user to log in through different methods - “account merging”
    1. Update the existing account using requestCredential
    2. accounts-meld in case you want to do more complicated things, but make sure you understand the risk!
        1. Check out this package for security
    2. There's a community project in progress to make this simpler
8. Authentication, roles, and permissions
    1. Read about roles and permissions in the security article
    2. Read about hiding certain views from people in the Routing chapter

Commit message:

A bit more details for useraccounts section
I moved the section _Adding custom data about users_ before the _useraccounts_ one so to be able to reference back to it while explaining how to add more field for the password registration (see below).

6.i very few lines to introduce the project. Basically: same underlying logic for different developer and user experiences. A bit about the support for different routers and UI framework. Easiness of customization as one of the major goals.

6.ii available packages for the different UI frameworks. 
  (optionally) how to override some templates for custom needs (might be enough to link to external docs...)
  (optionally) how to start from the `useraccounts:unstyled` package to style for unavailable frameworks

6.iii where to put [the few needed lines](https://github.com/meteor-useraccounts/boilerplates/blob/master/bootstrap-flow-router/lib/router/routes.js#L37-L42) and reference to [useraccounts:iron-routing](https://github.com/meteor-useraccounts/iron-routing) and [useraccounts:flow-routing](https://github.com/meteor-useraccounts/flow-routing) documentation

6.iv very brief listing of available options (labels, placeholders, ...) and where to put [the few needed lines](https://github.com/meteor-useraccounts/boilerplates/blob/master/bootstrap-flow-router/lib/config/at_config.js)

6.v should probably suggest to leverage the [onCreateUser](https://docs.meteor.com/#/full/accounts_oncreateuser) hook to pick up fields from the options parameters and put them in top-level fields of the user object rather than under `profile` (default behavior).

Feel free to comment and shrink the list.

outlines/accounts.md, after:

1. What does Meteor do for you?
    1. Standardized concept of userId in DDP
    2. accounts-base package that has a standard user database, and can be plugged with different login systems
2. The fastest way to get set up for a prototype: accounts-ui
    1. List of easy to set up login providers, code examples
    2. Read more about accounts user interfaces later
3. Password login
    1. accounts-password gives you password login with username, email, or both
    2. How to require username, email, or both
    3. Dealing with multiple email addresses
    4. The case insensitivity issues - working with Meteor 1.2+ password accounts. Basically, don't access Meteor.users directly.
    5. Email flows
        1. Enrollment email
        2. Reset password
        3. Verify email
        4. How to customize emails
        5. Generating HTML or text emails on the server using template strings
4. OAuth login
    1. Meteor has core packages for some of the most common login services
    2. Facebook
    3. GitHub
    4. Google
    5. Twitter
    6. Meetup
    7. Meteor Developer Accounts
    8. Building your own OAuth login handler
5. Adding custom data about users
    1. Adding new top-level fields onto the users collection
    2. How and why to disable profile
    3. Why top-level fields are better than nested objects in DDP (link to collections/schema article)
    4. Security concerns - don't accidentally publish secret data to the client
6. The useraccounts package for a production-grade login UI
    1. Rationale (logic & routing vs. styling)
    2. Pick the right package based on your CSS framework
    3. Quick routes set up
    4. Basic Customization (with link to documentation for deeper understanding)
    5. Additional fields for password registration (linking back to section 5)
7. Allowing the same user to log in through different methods - “account merging”
    1. Update the existing account using requestCredential
    2. accounts-meld in case you want to do more complicated things, but make sure you understand the risk!
        1. Check out this package for security
    2. There's a community project in progress to make this simpler
8. Authentication, roles, and permissions
    1. Read about roles and permissions in the security article
    2. Read about hiding certain views from people in the Routing chapter
