---
title: Migrating to Meteor 1.4
order: 3
description: How to migrate your application to use recommended best practice as of Meteor 1.4.
discourseTopicId: 26998
---

<h2 id="breaking-changes">Breaking changes</h2>

These are all the *breaking changes* &mdash; that is, changes you absolutely have to worry about if you are updating your app from 1.3.x to 1.4. However, we recommend that you also consider the *recommended* changes [listed below](#recommend-changes).

<h3 id="binary-packages-require-build-toolchain">Binary Packages require a Build Toolchain</h3>

The headline feature of Meteor 1.4 is the upgrade to Node version 4.4.7. Node 4 includes a changed ABI (application binary interface), which means that *binary npm packages* that your application uses will need to be recompiled.

Some very common binary packages (such as `npm-bcrypt`) will already have been republished for the Node 4 platform, so if you are using a limited set of packages, this may not affect you; however if you are using less common dependencies, this may be an issue.

If you have binary npm packages in your application `node_modules` directory, you should run `meteor npm rebuild` (after `meteor update`) in your application directory to recompile those packages.

Meteor will automatically recompile any binary npm dependencies of Meteor packages, if they were not already compiled with the correct ABI. This will typically happen the first time you start your application after updating to 1.4, but it may also happen when you `meteor add some:package` that was published using a different version of Meteor and/or Node.

In order for this rebuilding to work, you will need to install a basic compiler toolchain on your development machine. Specifically,

 - OS X users should install the [commandline tools](http://railsapps.github.io/xcode-command-line-tools.html) (in short, run `xcode-select --install`).

 - Windows users should install the [MS Build Tools](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=48159).

 - Linux users should ensure they have Python 2.7, `make` and a C compiler installed.

To test that your compiler toolchain is installed and working properly, try installing any binary npm package in your application using `meteor npm`. For example, run `meteor npm install bcrypt` then `meteor node`, then try calling `require("bcrypt")` from the Node shell.

<h3 id="update-from-mongo-2_4">Update from MongoDB 2.4</h3>

Meteor has been updated to use version 2.2.4 of the node MongoDB driver. This means Meteor now ships with full support for MongoDB 3.2 (the latest stable version) and the WiredTiger storage engine. [We recommend](#update-to-mongo-3_2) you update your application to MongoDB 3.2.

If you are currently using MongoDB 2.4, please note that the version has reached [end-of-life](https://www.mongodb.com/support-policy) and you should at the least update to version 2.6. Version 2.6 is the minimum version supported by Meteor 1.4.

Updating your database to 2.6 is generally pretty painless. Please consult the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/2.6-upgrade/) for details about how to do so.

> As of 1.4, you must ensure your `MONGO_OPLOG_URL` contains a `replicaSet` argument (see [the changelog](https://github.com/meteor/meteor/blob/devel/History.md#v14) and [the oplog documentation](https://github.com/meteor/docs/blob/master/long-form/oplog-observe-driver.md#oplogobservedriver-in-production)).

<h2 id="recommendations">Recommendations</h2>

<h3 id="update-to-1_3_5_1-first">Update to Meteor 1.3.5.1 first</h3>

Though not mandatory, it may be helpful to update your apps to Meteor 1.3.5.1 before updating to 1.4, since 1.3.5.1 is the most recent release before 1.4, and contains much of the same code as 1.4. To update an app to 1.3.5.1, run `meteor update --release 1.3.5.1` in the app directory. When you are confident the app is working correctly, `meteor update` will take you all the way to Meteor 1.4.

<h3 id="update-to-mongo-3_2">Update to MongoDB 3.2</h3>

Although Meteor 1.4 supports MongoDB 2.6 and up, as well as the older MMAPv1 storage engine, we recommend you update your database to use the new WiredTiger storage engine and use MongoDB 3.2.

To update your production database to version 3.2 you should follow the steps listed in the [MongoDB documentation](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/3.2-upgrade/). To update your storage engine, you should ensure you follow the ["Change Storage Engine to WiredTiger"](https://docs.mongodb.com/v3.0/release-notes/3.0-upgrade/#change-storage-engine-to-wiredtiger) instructions in the 3.0 upgrade documentation.

You can update your development database in a similar way (if you are running `meteor` as usual, you can connect to the development database at `localhost:3001/meteor`). However, if you are not concerned about the data in your development database, the easiest thing to do is to remove all local data (including your development database) with `meteor reset`. When you next start `meteor`, the database will be recreated with a 3.2 WiredTiger engine.

<h3 id="nested-imports">Use Nested Imports</h3>

Thanks to the use of the [reify](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reify) library, Meteor now fully supports nested `import` declarations in both application and package modules, whereas previously they were only allowed in application code:

```js
if (Meteor.isClient) {
  import { symbol } from './client-only/file';
}
```

One place this is particularly useful is in [test files that are only intended to run on the client or the server](https://github.com/meteor/todos/commit/3963a65d96cd7ef235a95d5e3a331d6f0606f70f) &mdash; you can now use `import` wherever you like, without having to organize your tests in `client` or `server` directories.

<h2 id="gotchas">Gotchas!</h2>
Here is a list of observed gotchas...

<h3 id="mongo-3_2-gotchas">Mongo 3.2</h3>

If you are using [oplog tailing](https://github.com/meteor/docs/blob/version-NEXT/long-form/oplog-observe-driver.md) and you see a failed authentication you may need to upgrade to [SCRAM-SHA-1](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/release-notes/3.0-scram/#upgrade-mongodb-cr-to-scram), essentially: `use admin, db.adminCommand({authSchemaUpgrade: 1});`.  You may need to delete and re-add your oplog reader user.

<h3 id="node-gyp-gotchas">node-gyp</h3>

Make sure this is installed so you can compile your node modules to native if necessary.  See [Install `node-gyp`](https://github.com/nodejs/node-gyp#installation)

<h3 id="clear-out-oldstuff-gotchas">Clear out old stuff</h3>

Try a `meteor reset` or better yet `rm -rf .meteor/local`.  Follow this with the [rebuild command](https://guide.meteor.com/1.4-migration.html#binary-packages-require-build-toolchain).

<h3 id="npm-bcrypt-gotchas">npm-bcrypt</h3>

You may run into this [`npm-bcrypt`](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/29340510/bcrypt-is-breaking-my-meteor-application-how-do-i-fix-it/29347616) problem

<h3 id="debugger-gotcha">debugger statement issue</h3>
If you have `debugger` statements in your code they will now hit the breakpoint even without a debugger attached.
<h4>Old Behavior (prior to Meteor 1.4 with Node v0.10.46)</h4>

Set `NODE_OPTIONS=--debug`<br>
Sprinkle `debugger` statements in code<br>
`meteor` command will start and run fine, skipping `debugger` statements

<h4>New Behavior (Meteor 1.4 with Node v4.4.7)</h4>

Set `NODE_OPTIONS=--debug`<br>
Sprinkle `debugger` statements in code<br>
`meteor` command will start will stop at first `debugger` statement waiting for a debugger to attach

<h4>Comments:</h4>

The old behavior was quite handy because when the `--debug-brk` flag was not used the code would blow past `debugger` statements unless a debugger was attached. Essentially, you could leave a few `debugger` statements in the startup code so that when the `--debug-brk` flag was used you could just hit continue from the initial breakpoint and it would stop before any init code.

The new behavior may be even better, now you can put in `debugger` statements in the init code when you want to debug there and avoid the use of the `--debug-brk` flag altogether. `--debug-brk` is a pain because it starts debugging from the very beginning of the code load. And this would involve loading each package in debug mode which is very slow.

So now debugging init code can be a much quicker as you can avoid loading all packages in debug mode. Thanks Node v4.4.7!
