content/vue.md, before:

---
title: Vue
description: How to use the Vue frontend rendering library, with Meteor.
---

After reading this guide, you'll know:

1. What Vue is, and why you would consider using it with Meteor.
2. How to install Vue in your Meteor application, and how to use it correctly.
3. [TODO] How to structure your Vue application according to both Meteor's and Vue's style guides
4. How to use Vue's SSR (Server-side Rendering) with Meteor. 
5. [TODO] How to integrate Vue with Meteor's realtime data layer.

Vue already has an excellent guide with many advanced topics already covered. Some of them are [SSR (Server-side Rendering)](https://ssr.vuejs.org/), 
[Routing](https://router.vuejs.org/), [Code Structure and Style Guide](https://vuejs.org/v2/style-guide/) and [State Management with Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).

This documentation is purely focused on integrating it with Meteor.

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
[Vue](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/) (pronounced /vjuː/, like view) is a progressive framework for building user interfaces. 
Unlike other monolithic frameworks, Vue is designed from the ground up to be incrementally adoptable. 
The core library is focused on the view layer only, and is easy to pick up and integrate with other 
libraries or existing projects. On the other hand, Vue is also perfectly capable of powering sophisticated 
Single-Page Applications when used in combination with 
[modern tooling](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/single-file-components.html) and [supporting libraries](https://github.com/vuejs/awesome-vue#components--libraries).

Vue has an excellent [guide and documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/). This guide is about integrating it with Meteor.

<h3 id="why-use-vue-with-meteor">Why use Vue with Meteor</h3>

Vue is—like React, Blaze and Angular—a frontend library. Some really nice frameworks are built around Vue. [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org) for example, aims to create a framework flexible enough that you can use it as a main project base or in addition to your current project based on Node.js.

Though Nuxt.js is full-stack and very pluggable. It lacks the an API to communicate data from and to the server. Also unlike Meteor, Nuxt still relies on a configuration file. 
Meteor's build tool and Pub/Sub API (or Apollo) provides Vue with this API that you would normally have to integrate yourself, greatly reducing the amount
of boilerplate code you have to write.

<h3 id="integrating-vue-with-meteor">Integrating Vue With Meteor</h3>

To start a new project:  

```sh
meteor create .
```

To install Vue in Meteor 1.7, you should add it as an npm dependency:

```sh
meteor npm install --save vue
```

To support [Vue's Single File Components](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/single-file-components.html) with the .vue file extensions, install the following Meteor package created by Vue Core developer [Akryum (Guillaume Chau)](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor/tree/master/packages/vue-component).

```sh
meteor add akryum:vue-component
```

You will end up with at least 3 files: 

- `/client/App.vue` (The root component of your app)
- `/client/main.js` (Initializing the Vue app in Meteor startup)
- `/client/main.html` (containing the body with the #app div)

We need a base HTML document that has the `app` id.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/main.html`.

```html
<body>
  <div id="app"></div>
</body>
```

You can now start writing .vue files in your app with the following format.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/App.vue`.

```vuejs
<template>
  <div>
    <p>This is a Vue component and below is the current date:<br />{{date}}</p>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      date: new Date(),
    };
  }
}
</script>

<style scoped>
  p {
    font-size: 2em;
    text-align: center;
  }
</style>
```

You can render the Vue component hierarchy to the DOM by using the below snippet in you client startup file.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/main.js`.

```javascript
import Vue from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';
import './main.html';

Meteor.startup(() => {
  new Vue({
    el: '#app',
    ...App,
  });
});
```

Run your new Vue+Meteor app with this command: `NO_HMR=1 meteor`

<h2 id="ssr-code-splitting">SSR and Code Splitting</h2>
Vue has [an excellent guide on how to render your Vue application on the server](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/ssr.html). It includes code splitting, async data fetching and many other practices that are used in most apps that require this. 

<h3 id="basic-example">Basic Example</h3>
Making Vue SSR to work with Meteor is not more complex then for example with [Express](https://expressjs.com/). 
However instead of defining a wildcard route, Meteor uses its own [server-render](https://docs.meteor.com/packages/server-render.html) package that exposes an `onPageLoad` function. Every time a call is made to 
the server side, this function is triggered. This is where we should put our code like how its described on the [VueJS SSR Guide](https://ssr.vuejs.org/guide/#integrating-with-a-server).

To add the packages, run:

```sh
meteor add server-render
meteor npm install --save vue-server-renderer
```
then connect to Vue in `/server/main.js`:

```javascript
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import Vue from 'vue';
import { onPageLoad } from 'meteor/server-render';
import { createRenderer } from 'vue-server-renderer';

const renderer = createRenderer();

onPageLoad(sink => {
  console.log('onPageLoad');
  
  const url = sink.request.url.path;
  
  const app = new Vue({
    data: {
      url
    },
    template: `<div>The visited URL is: {{ url }}</div>`
  });

  renderer.renderToString(app, (err, html) => {
    if (err) {
      res.status(500).end('Internal Server Error');
      return
    }
    console.log('html', html);
    
    sink.renderIntoElementById('app', html);
  })
})
```

Luckily [Akryum](https://github.com/akryum) has us covered and provided us with a Meteor package for this: 
[akryum:vue-ssr](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor/tree/master/packages/vue-ssr) allows us to write our server-side code like below:

```javascript
import { VueSSR } from 'meteor/akryum:vue-ssr';
import createApp from './app';

VueSSR.createApp = function () {
  // Initialize the Vue app instance and return the app instance
  const { app } = createApp(); 
  return { app };
}
```

<h4 id="serverside-routes">Server-side Routing</h4>

Sweet, but most apps have some sort of routing functionality. We can use the VueSSR context parameter 
for this. It simply passes the Meteor server-render request url which we need to push into our router instance:

```javascript
import { VueSSR } from 'meteor/akryum:vue-ssr';
import createApp from './app';

VueSSR.createApp = function (context) {
  // Initialize the Vue app instance and return the app + router instance
  const { app, router } = createApp(); 
  
  // Set router's location from the context
  router.push(context.url);
  
  return { app };
}
```

<h3>Async data</h3>

[Nuxt](https://nuxtjs.org/) has a lovely feature called [asyncData](https://nuxtjs.org/guide/async-data). 
This allows developers to fetch data from an external source on the server side. Below follows a description of how to implement 
a similar method into your Meteor application which grants you the same benefits, but with Meteor's 'methods' API.

> Important reminder here is the fact that Server Rendering on its own is already worth a guide - 
[which is exactly what the guys from Vue did](https://ssr.vuejs.org/). Most of the code is needed 
in any platform except Nuxt (Vue based) and Next (React based). We simply describe the best way to do this for Meteor. To really understand what is happening 
read that SSR guide from Vue.

SSR follows a couple of steps that are almost always the same for any frontend library (React, Vue or Angular).

1. Resolve the url with the router
2. Fetch any matching components from the router
3. Filter out components that have no asyncData
4. Map the components into a list of promises by return the asyncData method's result
5. Resolve all promises
6. Store the resulting data in the HTML for later hydration of the client bundle
7. Hydrate the clientside 

Its better documented in code:

```javascript
VueSSR.createApp = function (context) {

  // Wait with sending the app to the client until the promise resolves (thanks Akryum)
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const { app, router, store } = createApp({
      ssr: true,
    });

    // 1. Resolve the URL with the router
    router.push(context.url);
    
    router.onReady(async () => {
      // 2, Fetch any matching components from the router
      const matchedComponents = router.getMatchedComponents();
      
      const route = router.currentRoute;
    
      // No matched routes
      if (!matchedComponents.length) {
        reject(new Error('not-found'));
      }
      
      // 3. Filter out components that have no asyncData
      const componentsWithAsyncData = matchedComponents.filter(component => component.asyncData);

      // 4. Map the components into a list of promises 
      // by returning the asyncData method's result
      const asyncDataPromises = componentsWithAsyncData.map(component => (
        component.asyncData({ store, route })
      ));
      
      // You can have the asyncData methods resolve promises with data. 
      // However to avoid complexity its recommended to leverage Vuex
      // In our case we're simply calling Vuex actions in our methods 
      // that do the fetching and storing of the data. This makes the below 
      // step really simple
      
      // 5. Resolve all promises. (that's it)
      await Promise.all(asyncDataPromises);
      
      // From this point on we can assume that all the needed data is stored 
      // in the Vuex store. Now we simply need to grap it and push it into 
      // the HTML as a "javascript string"
      
      // 6. Store the data in the HTML for later hydration of the client bundle
      const js = `window.__INITIAL_STATE__=${JSON.stringify(store.state)};`;
      
      // Resolve the promise with the same object as the simple version
      // Push our javascript string into the resolver. 
      // The VueSSR package takes care of the rest
      resolve({
        app,
        js, 
      });      
    });
  }); 
};
```

Awesome. When we load our app in the browser you should see a weird effect. The app seems to load correctly. 
That's the server-side rendering doing its job well. However, after a split second the app suddenly is empty again.

That's because when the client-side bundle takes over, it doesn't have its data yet. It will override the HTML with an empty app! 
We need to hydrate the bundle with the JSON data in the HTML.

If you inspect the HTML via the source code view, you will see the HTML source of your 
app accompanied by the `__INITIAL_STATE=""` filled with the JSON string. We need 
to use this to hydrate the clientside. Luckily this is fairly easy, because we have only one 
place that needs hydration: the Vuex store!

```javascript
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import createApp from './app';

Meteor.startup(() => {
  const { store, router } = createApp({ // Same function as the server
    ssr: false,
  });

  // Hydrate the Vuex store with the JSON string
  if (window.__INITIAL_STATE__) {
    store.replaceState(window.__INITIAL_STATE__);
  }
});
```

Now when we load our bundle, the components should have data from the store. All fine. 
However there is one more thing to do. If we navigate, our newly rendered clientside 
components will again not have any data. This is because the `asyncData` method is not yet being called 
on the client side. We can fix this using a mixin like below as documented in the [Vue SSR Guide](https://ssr.vuejs.org/guide/data.html#client-data-fetching).

```javascript
Vue.mixin({
  beforeMount () {
    const { asyncData } = this.$options
    if (asyncData) {
      // assign the fetch operation to a promise
      // so that in components we can do `this.dataPromise.then(...)` to
      // perform other tasks after data is ready
      this.dataPromise = asyncData({
        store: this.$store,
        route: this.$route
      })
    }
  }
})
```

We now have a fully functioning and server-rendered Vue app in Meteor! 

<h2 id="vue-and-meteor-realtime-data-layer">How to integrate Vue with Meteor’s realtime data layer</h2>

One of the biggest advantages of Meteor is definitely it's realtime data layer. To integrate it with Vue, first install the `vue-meteor-tracker` package from NPM:

```
meteor npm install --save vue-meteor-tracker
```

Next, the package needs to be plugged into the Vue object—just before Vue initialization in `/client/client.js`:

```javascript
import VueMeteorTracker from 'vue-meteor-tracker';

Vue.use(VueMeteorTracker);
```

<h3 id="vue-and-meteor-realtime-data-layer-subscriptions">Using subscriptions in Vue components</h3>

In your Vue component, add a `meteor` object. It may contain subscriptions or reactive data sources like cursors and `ReactiveVar`s.

```javascript
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      selectedThreadId: null
    }
  },
  meteor: {
    // Subscriptions
    $subscribe: {
      // We subscribe to the 'threads' publication
      'threads': []
    },
    // Threads list
    // 
    // You can access tthe result with the 'threads' property on the Vue instance
    threads () {
      // Here you can use Meteor reactive sources
      // like cursors or reactive vars
      // as you would in a Blaze template helper
      return Threads.find({}, {
        sort: {date: -1}
      })
    },
    // Selected thread
    selectedThread () {
      // You can also use Vue reactive data inside
      return Threads.findOne(this.selectedThreadId)
    }
  }
}
```

In example above, `selectedThreadId` variable is reactive. Every time it changes, the subscription will re-run.

For more information, see the [`vue-meteor-tracker` readme](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor-tracker).

Commit message:

Add some links and steps for linting and application structure
Add some links and steps for linting and application structure

content/vue.md, after:

---
title: Vue
description: How to use the Vue frontend rendering library, with Meteor.
---

After reading this guide, you'll know:

1. What Vue is, and why you would consider using it with Meteor.
2. How to install Vue in your Meteor application, and how to use it correctly.
3. Meteor’s and Vue’s Style Guides and Structure
4. How to use Vue's SSR (Server-side Rendering) with Meteor. 
5. [TODO] How to integrate Vue with Meteor's realtime data layer.

Vue already has an excellent guide with many advanced topics already covered. Some of them are [SSR (Server-side Rendering)](https://ssr.vuejs.org/), 
[Routing](https://router.vuejs.org/), [Code Structure and Style Guide](https://vuejs.org/v2/style-guide/) and [State Management with Vuex](https://vuex.vuejs.org/).

This documentation is purely focused on integrating it with Meteor.

<h2 id="introduction">Introduction</h2>
[Vue](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/) (pronounced /vjuː/, like view) is a progressive framework for building user interfaces. 
Unlike other monolithic frameworks, Vue is designed from the ground up to be incrementally adoptable. 
The core library is focused on the view layer only, and is easy to pick up and integrate with other 
libraries or existing projects. On the other hand, Vue is also perfectly capable of powering sophisticated 
Single-Page Applications when used in combination with 
[modern tooling](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/single-file-components.html) and [supporting libraries](https://github.com/vuejs/awesome-vue#components--libraries).

Vue has an excellent [guide and documentation](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/). This guide is about integrating it with Meteor.

<h3 id="why-use-vue-with-meteor">Why use Vue with Meteor</h3>

Vue is—like React, Blaze and Angular—a frontend library. Some really nice frameworks are built around Vue. [Nuxt.js](https://nuxtjs.org) for example, aims to create a framework flexible enough that you can use it as a main project base or in addition to your current project based on Node.js.

Though Nuxt.js is full-stack and very pluggable. It lacks the an API to communicate data from and to the server. Also unlike Meteor, Nuxt still relies on a configuration file. 
Meteor's build tool and Pub/Sub API (or Apollo) provides Vue with this API that you would normally have to integrate yourself, greatly reducing the amount
of boilerplate code you have to write.

<h3 id="integrating-vue-with-meteor">Integrating Vue With Meteor</h3>

To start a new project:  

```sh
meteor create .
```

To install Vue in Meteor 1.7, you should add it as an npm dependency:

```sh
meteor npm install --save vue
```

To support [Vue's Single File Components](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/single-file-components.html) with the .vue file extensions, install the following Meteor package created by Vue Core developer [Akryum (Guillaume Chau)](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor/tree/master/packages/vue-component).

```sh
meteor add akryum:vue-component
```

You will end up with at least 3 files: 

- `/client/App.vue` (The root component of your app)
- `/client/main.js` (Initializing the Vue app in Meteor startup)
- `/client/main.html` (containing the body with the #app div)

We need a base HTML document that has the `app` id.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/main.html`.

```html
<body>
  <div id="app"></div>
</body>
```

You can now start writing .vue files in your app with the following format.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/App.vue`.

```vuejs
<template>
  <div>
    <p>This is a Vue component and below is the current date:<br />{{date}}</p>
  </div>
</template>

<script>
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      date: new Date(),
    };
  }
}
</script>

<style scoped>
  p {
    font-size: 2em;
    text-align: center;
  }
</style>
```

You can render the Vue component hierarchy to the DOM by using the below snippet in you client startup file.  If you created a new project from `meteor create .`, put this in your `/client/main.js`.

```javascript
import Vue from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';
import './main.html';

Meteor.startup(() => {
  new Vue({
    el: '#app',
    ...App,
  });
});
```

Run your new Vue+Meteor app with this command: `NO_HMR=1 meteor`

<h2 id="style-guide">Meteor’s and Vue’s Style Guides and Structure

Like code linting and style guides are tools for making code easier and more fun to work with.

These are practical concerns to accomplish practical means.

  - Leverage existing tools
  - Leverage existing configurations
  
[Meteor's style guide](https://guide.meteor.com/code-style.html) and [Vue's style guide](https://vuejs.org/v2/style-guide/) can be overlapped like this:

1. [Configure your Editor](https://guide.meteor.com/code-style.html#eslint-editor)
1. [Configure eslint for Meteor](https://guide.meteor.com/code-style.html#eslint-installing)
1. [Review the Vue Style Guide](https://vuejs.org/v2/style-guide/#Rule-Categories)
1. Open up the [ESLint rules](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/) as needed.
  
Application Structure is documented here:

1. [Meteor's Application Structure](https://guide.meteor.com/structure.html#example-app-structure) is the default start.
1. [Vuex's Application Structure](https://vuex.vuejs.org/guide/structure.html) may be interesting.

<h2 id="ssr-code-splitting">SSR and Code Splitting</h2>
Vue has [an excellent guide on how to render your Vue application on the server](https://vuejs.org/v2/guide/ssr.html). It includes code splitting, async data fetching and many other practices that are used in most apps that require this. 

<h3 id="basic-example">Basic Example</h3>
Making Vue SSR to work with Meteor is not more complex then for example with [Express](https://expressjs.com/). 
However instead of defining a wildcard route, Meteor uses its own [server-render](https://docs.meteor.com/packages/server-render.html) package that exposes an `onPageLoad` function. Every time a call is made to 
the server side, this function is triggered. This is where we should put our code like how its described on the [VueJS SSR Guide](https://ssr.vuejs.org/guide/#integrating-with-a-server).

To add the packages, run:

```sh
meteor add server-render
meteor npm install --save vue-server-renderer
```
then connect to Vue in `/server/main.js`:

```javascript
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import Vue from 'vue';
import { onPageLoad } from 'meteor/server-render';
import { createRenderer } from 'vue-server-renderer';

const renderer = createRenderer();

onPageLoad(sink => {
  console.log('onPageLoad');
  
  const url = sink.request.url.path;
  
  const app = new Vue({
    data: {
      url
    },
    template: `<div>The visited URL is: {{ url }}</div>`
  });

  renderer.renderToString(app, (err, html) => {
    if (err) {
      res.status(500).end('Internal Server Error');
      return
    }
    console.log('html', html);
    
    sink.renderIntoElementById('app', html);
  })
})
```

Luckily [Akryum](https://github.com/akryum) has us covered and provided us with a Meteor package for this: 
[akryum:vue-ssr](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor/tree/master/packages/vue-ssr) allows us to write our server-side code like below:

```javascript
import { VueSSR } from 'meteor/akryum:vue-ssr';
import createApp from './app';

VueSSR.createApp = function () {
  // Initialize the Vue app instance and return the app instance
  const { app } = createApp(); 
  return { app };
}
```

<h4 id="serverside-routes">Server-side Routing</h4>

Sweet, but most apps have some sort of routing functionality. We can use the VueSSR context parameter 
for this. It simply passes the Meteor server-render request url which we need to push into our router instance:

```javascript
import { VueSSR } from 'meteor/akryum:vue-ssr';
import createApp from './app';

VueSSR.createApp = function (context) {
  // Initialize the Vue app instance and return the app + router instance
  const { app, router } = createApp(); 
  
  // Set router's location from the context
  router.push(context.url);
  
  return { app };
}
```

<h3>Async data</h3>

[Nuxt](https://nuxtjs.org/) has a lovely feature called [asyncData](https://nuxtjs.org/guide/async-data). 
This allows developers to fetch data from an external source on the server side. Below follows a description of how to implement 
a similar method into your Meteor application which grants you the same benefits, but with Meteor's 'methods' API.

> Important reminder here is the fact that Server Rendering on its own is already worth a guide - 
[which is exactly what the guys from Vue did](https://ssr.vuejs.org/). Most of the code is needed 
in any platform except Nuxt (Vue based) and Next (React based). We simply describe the best way to do this for Meteor. To really understand what is happening 
read that SSR guide from Vue.

SSR follows a couple of steps that are almost always the same for any frontend library (React, Vue or Angular).

1. Resolve the url with the router
2. Fetch any matching components from the router
3. Filter out components that have no asyncData
4. Map the components into a list of promises by return the asyncData method's result
5. Resolve all promises
6. Store the resulting data in the HTML for later hydration of the client bundle
7. Hydrate the clientside 

Its better documented in code:

```javascript
VueSSR.createApp = function (context) {

  // Wait with sending the app to the client until the promise resolves (thanks Akryum)
  return new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
    const { app, router, store } = createApp({
      ssr: true,
    });

    // 1. Resolve the URL with the router
    router.push(context.url);
    
    router.onReady(async () => {
      // 2, Fetch any matching components from the router
      const matchedComponents = router.getMatchedComponents();
      
      const route = router.currentRoute;
    
      // No matched routes
      if (!matchedComponents.length) {
        reject(new Error('not-found'));
      }
      
      // 3. Filter out components that have no asyncData
      const componentsWithAsyncData = matchedComponents.filter(component => component.asyncData);

      // 4. Map the components into a list of promises 
      // by returning the asyncData method's result
      const asyncDataPromises = componentsWithAsyncData.map(component => (
        component.asyncData({ store, route })
      ));
      
      // You can have the asyncData methods resolve promises with data. 
      // However to avoid complexity its recommended to leverage Vuex
      // In our case we're simply calling Vuex actions in our methods 
      // that do the fetching and storing of the data. This makes the below 
      // step really simple
      
      // 5. Resolve all promises. (that's it)
      await Promise.all(asyncDataPromises);
      
      // From this point on we can assume that all the needed data is stored 
      // in the Vuex store. Now we simply need to grap it and push it into 
      // the HTML as a "javascript string"
      
      // 6. Store the data in the HTML for later hydration of the client bundle
      const js = `window.__INITIAL_STATE__=${JSON.stringify(store.state)};`;
      
      // Resolve the promise with the same object as the simple version
      // Push our javascript string into the resolver. 
      // The VueSSR package takes care of the rest
      resolve({
        app,
        js, 
      });      
    });
  }); 
};
```

Awesome. When we load our app in the browser you should see a weird effect. The app seems to load correctly. 
That's the server-side rendering doing its job well. However, after a split second the app suddenly is empty again.

That's because when the client-side bundle takes over, it doesn't have its data yet. It will override the HTML with an empty app! 
We need to hydrate the bundle with the JSON data in the HTML.

If you inspect the HTML via the source code view, you will see the HTML source of your 
app accompanied by the `__INITIAL_STATE=""` filled with the JSON string. We need 
to use this to hydrate the clientside. Luckily this is fairly easy, because we have only one 
place that needs hydration: the Vuex store!

```javascript
import { Meteor } from 'meteor/meteor';
import createApp from './app';

Meteor.startup(() => {
  const { store, router } = createApp({ // Same function as the server
    ssr: false,
  });

  // Hydrate the Vuex store with the JSON string
  if (window.__INITIAL_STATE__) {
    store.replaceState(window.__INITIAL_STATE__);
  }
});
```

Now when we load our bundle, the components should have data from the store. All fine. 
However there is one more thing to do. If we navigate, our newly rendered clientside 
components will again not have any data. This is because the `asyncData` method is not yet being called 
on the client side. We can fix this using a mixin like below as documented in the [Vue SSR Guide](https://ssr.vuejs.org/guide/data.html#client-data-fetching).

```javascript
Vue.mixin({
  beforeMount () {
    const { asyncData } = this.$options
    if (asyncData) {
      // assign the fetch operation to a promise
      // so that in components we can do `this.dataPromise.then(...)` to
      // perform other tasks after data is ready
      this.dataPromise = asyncData({
        store: this.$store,
        route: this.$route
      })
    }
  }
})
```

We now have a fully functioning and server-rendered Vue app in Meteor! 

<h2 id="vue-and-meteor-realtime-data-layer">How to integrate Vue with Meteor’s realtime data layer</h2>

One of the biggest advantages of Meteor is definitely it's realtime data layer. To integrate it with Vue, first install the `vue-meteor-tracker` package from NPM:

```
meteor npm install --save vue-meteor-tracker
```

Next, the package needs to be plugged into the Vue object—just before Vue initialization in `/client/client.js`:

```javascript
import VueMeteorTracker from 'vue-meteor-tracker';

Vue.use(VueMeteorTracker);
```

<h3 id="vue-and-meteor-realtime-data-layer-subscriptions">Using subscriptions in Vue components</h3>

In your Vue component, add a `meteor` object. It may contain subscriptions or reactive data sources like cursors and `ReactiveVar`s.

```javascript
export default {
  data() {
    return {
      selectedThreadId: null
    }
  },
  meteor: {
    // Subscriptions
    $subscribe: {
      // We subscribe to the 'threads' publication
      'threads': []
    },
    // Threads list
    // 
    // You can access tthe result with the 'threads' property on the Vue instance
    threads () {
      // Here you can use Meteor reactive sources
      // like cursors or reactive vars
      // as you would in a Blaze template helper
      return Threads.find({}, {
        sort: {date: -1}
      })
    },
    // Selected thread
    selectedThread () {
      // You can also use Vue reactive data inside
      return Threads.findOne(this.selectedThreadId)
    }
  }
}
```

In example above, `selectedThreadId` variable is reactive. Every time it changes, the subscription will re-run.

For more information, see the [`vue-meteor-tracker` readme](https://github.com/meteor-vue/vue-meteor-tracker).
